examples/README-VISUAL-DEBUG.md, before:

# ColorPicker Visual Debug Test Guide

## 🎯 Purpose

This test uses **color-coding** to identify which GUI layer is blocking the ColorPicker sliders. Each layer is assigned a distinct color so you can visually see what's covering what.

## 🎨 Color Legend

| Color | Layer | What It Should Look Like |
|-------|-------|--------------------------|
| 🔴 **RED** | OverlayBlocker | Semi-transparent red overlay that dims the background |
| 🟢 **GREEN** | OverlayLayer | Very transparent green container (70% transparent) |
| 🔵 **BLUE** | ColorPickerPanel | Blue panel with RGB/HSV sliders visible inside |
| 🟡 **YELLOW** | Main Window | Yellow border around the main RvrseUI window |

## 📋 How to Run the Test

### Method 1: Direct loadstring (Recommended)
```lua
loadstring(game:HttpGet("https://raw.githubusercontent.com/CoderRvrse/RvrseUI/main/examples/test-colorpicker-visual-debug.lua"))()
```

### Method 2: Copy/Paste
1. Copy the entire contents of `test-colorpicker-visual-debug.lua`
2. Paste into a LocalScript in Roblox Studio
3. Run the script

## 🔍 What to Look For

### When the Test Loads:
1. You should see a window with a **YELLOW border**
2. Console will show layer discovery:
   ```
   ✅ Found RvrseUI_Popovers ScreenGui
   ✅ Found OverlayLayer
   ✅ Found OverlayBlocker
   ✅ Found ColorPickerPanel
   ```

### When You Click the Orange Circle:
1. **RED blocker** should appear (semi-transparent, dimming background)
2. **GREEN overlay layer** should be visible (very transparent)
3. **BLUE panel** should appear with sliders inside
4. **YELLOW window border** should still be visible (not covered)

### Console Monitoring:
The script continuously monitors blocker state changes and logs:
```
[BLOCKER] Visible: true | ZIndex: 100 | Transparency: 0.70 | Modal: false | Active: false
```

## 🐛 Diagnosing Issues

### Issue 1: Red Blocker Covers Everything
**Symptoms:**
- You see a semi-transparent RED screen
- You CANNOT see the BLUE panel
- You CANNOT see the YELLOW window border

**Diagnosis:**
- Blocker ZIndex is too high OR
- Blocker is Modal/Active (blocking all clicks) OR
- Blocker is parented incorrectly

**Console Check:**
```lua
[BLOCKER] Visible: true | ZIndex: 100 | Transparency: 0.70 | Modal: true | Active: true
                                                              ^^^^           ^^^^
                                                             Problem!       Problem!
```

**Fix Needed:**
- Set `blocker.Modal = false`
- Set `blocker.Active = false`
- Ensure blocker ZIndex (100) < panel ZIndex (200)

---

### Issue 2: Blue Panel Not Visible
**Symptoms:**
- You see RED blocker
- You see GREEN overlay
- You DO NOT see BLUE panel

**Diagnosis:**
- Panel ZIndex is too low (should be 200, above blocker's 100)
- Panel is off-screen (check position)
- Panel size is 0 (ClipsDescendants issue)

**Console Check:**
```
✅ Found ColorPickerPanel
   ZIndex: 200
   Visible: true
   Size: {0, 320}, {0, 0}  ← Height is 0! Panel is collapsed!
```

**Fix Needed:**
- Panel animation not running (height stays 0)
- ClipsDescendants set to true with 0 height
- Check `pickerPanel.Size` after animation

---

### Issue 3: Yellow Border Not Visible
**Symptoms:**
- You CANNOT see the YELLOW border around main window
- Main window is completely covered

**Diagnosis:**
- RvrseUI_Popovers DisplayOrder is too high
- Main window (DisplayOrder 999) is below popovers layer

**Fix Needed:**
- Ensure `RvrseUI_Popovers.DisplayOrder` > `RvrseUI_Host.DisplayOrder`
- But blocker should still be semi-transparent to see through it

---

### Issue 4: Everything Works But Sliders Not Responding
**Symptoms:**
- RED blocker is semi-transparent (correct)
- BLUE panel is visible (correct)
- But you can't click sliders

**Diagnosis:**
- Blocker Modal/Active is stealing all clicks
- Panel ZIndex is correct but blocker is blocking input

**Console Check:**
```
[BLOCKER] Visible: true | ZIndex: 100 | Transparency: 0.70 | Modal: true | Active: true
```

**Fix Needed:**
- Set `blocker.Modal = false` (allows clicks to pass through to higher ZIndex elements)

---

## ✅ Expected Working Behavior

### Visual:
1. **Before Click:**
   - Main window with YELLOW border visible
   - No RED/GREEN/BLUE layers visible

2. **After Clicking Orange Circle:**
   - RED blocker appears (70% transparent, dims background)
   - GREEN overlay layer visible (very transparent)
   - BLUE panel slides in with sliders
   - YELLOW border still visible through semi-transparent blocker
   - You CAN click sliders (blocker doesn't block higher ZIndex elements)

3. **When Dragging Sliders:**
   - All 6 sliders update in sync (RGB ↔ HSV)
   - Hex input updates live
   - Preview circle changes color
   - OnChanged callback fires in console

4. **When Clicking Outside Panel (on RED area):**
   - Panel closes smoothly
   - Blocker fades out
   - Back to initial state (only YELLOW border visible)

### Console:
```
🎨 ColorPicker Visual Debug Test
🔴 RED = Blocker Layer
🟢 GREEN = Overlay Layer
🔵 BLUE = ColorPicker Panel
🟡 YELLOW = Main Window
================================================================================

🔍 Finding and coloring layers...
✅ Added YELLOW border to main window
✅ Found RvrseUI_Popovers ScreenGui
   DisplayOrder: 1009
✅ Found OverlayLayer
   🟢 Set OverlayLayer to GREEN (70% transparent)
✅ Found OverlayBlocker
   ZIndex: 100
   Visible: false
   Transparency: 1
   🔴 Set Blocker to RED
✅ Found ColorPickerPanel
   ZIndex: 200
   Visible: false
   Size: {0, 320}, {0, 0}
   🔵 Set ColorPickerPanel to BLUE

================================================================================
✅ Visual debug setup complete!

📋 What you should see:
  1. Main window has YELLOW border
  2. When you click the orange circle:
     🔴 RED blocker should appear (semi-transparent)
     🟢 GREEN overlay layer visible
     🔵 BLUE ColorPicker panel with sliders

⚠️  If RED blocker covers everything:
     → Blocker ZIndex is too high
     → Blocker shouldn't be Modal/Active

⚠️  If you can't see BLUE panel:
     → Panel ZIndex needs to be higher than blocker
     → Panel might be off-screen (check position)
================================================================================

[User clicks orange circle]

[BLOCKER] Visible: true | ZIndex: 100 | Transparency: 0.70 | Modal: false | Active: false
[ColorPicker Changed] 255, 100, 50

[User drags R slider]

[ColorPicker Changed] 200, 100, 50
```

---

## 🛠️ Next Steps After Running This Test

1. **Take a screenshot** of what you see when the panel is open
2. **Copy the console output** (all the logs)
3. **Report findings:**
   - Can you see YELLOW border? (Yes/No)
   - Can you see RED blocker? (Yes/No, and is it transparent?)
   - Can you see BLUE panel? (Yes/No)
   - Can you click sliders? (Yes/No)
   - What does the blocker console log show? (Modal/Active values)

4. **Based on findings**, we'll fix:
   - ZIndex values if layers are in wrong order
   - Modal/Active properties if blocker is stealing clicks
   - DisplayOrder if main window is completely covered
   - Panel animation if it's not opening to full height

---

## 📝 Technical Details

### ZIndex Hierarchy (Expected):
```
Main Window (DisplayOrder 999)
  └─ Should be visible through semi-transparent blocker

RvrseUI_Popovers (DisplayOrder 1009)
  └─ OverlayLayer (ZIndex 1, BackgroundTransparency = 0.7, GREEN)
      ├─ OverlayBlocker (ZIndex 100, BackgroundTransparency = 0.3, RED, Modal = false)
      └─ ColorPickerPanel (ZIndex 200, BackgroundTransparency = 0.3, BLUE)
```

### Why This Color Scheme:
- **RED (Blocker)**: High contrast, easy to see if it's covering things
- **GREEN (Layer)**: Neutral, shows layer boundaries
- **BLUE (Panel)**: Cool color, contrasts with sliders inside
- **YELLOW (Window)**: Bright, should always be partially visible through blocker

### Blocker Properties (Critical):
```lua
blocker.Modal = false       -- Allows clicks on higher ZIndex elements
blocker.Active = false      -- Doesn't capture input events
blocker.ZIndex = 100        -- Below panel (200)
blocker.BackgroundTransparency = 0.3  -- 70% transparent (we set to 0.3 in debug test to see it better)
```

---

## 🎯 Success Criteria

The ColorPicker Phase 2 is WORKING when:

✅ RED blocker is semi-transparent (you can see main window through it)
✅ BLUE panel is visible on top of blocker
✅ All 6 sliders (RGB + HSV) are clickable and responsive
✅ Hex input updates when sliders change
✅ Clicking RED area (outside BLUE panel) closes the panel
✅ YELLOW border remains visible (not completely covered)
✅ Console shows `Modal: false | Active: false` for blocker

---

**File:** `test-colorpicker-visual-debug.lua`
**Purpose:** Diagnose blocker layering issues
**Version:** 4.0.1
**Date:** 2025-10-17

Commit message:

docs: update visual debug guide with shadow bug resolution
- Documented the root cause (shadow extending 40px beyond panel)
- Added fix details and commit reference
- Marked issue as RESOLVED
- Kept debug guide for historical reference

examples/README-VISUAL-DEBUG.md, after:

# ColorPicker Visual Debug Test Guide

## ✅ ISSUE RESOLVED!

**The gray box blocking the ColorPicker was the SHADOW element!**

### What Happened:
- `UIHelpers.shadow()` creates an ImageLabel that extends **40px beyond the panel on all sides**
- For the ColorPickerPanel (320x456px), the shadow was **400x536px** - massive!
- Shadow ZIndex = 199 (just below panel ZIndex 200)
- This giant shadow was the gray/dark box covering the entire screen

### The Fix:
- Disabled `shadow(pickerPanel, 0.7, 20)` in [ColorPicker.lua:196](../src/Elements/ColorPicker.lua#L196)
- Shadow helper is designed for small inline elements, NOT large overlay panels
- Panel now renders cleanly without the blocking shadow

### Version:
- Fixed in commit `f48410e`
- RvrseUI v4.0.1

---

## 🎯 Purpose (Historical)

This test uses **color-coding** to identify which GUI layer is blocking the ColorPicker sliders. Each layer is assigned a distinct color so you can visually see what's covering what.

**NOTE:** This test led to discovering the shadow bug! Keeping it for future debugging reference.

## 🎨 Color Legend

| Color | Layer | What It Should Look Like |
|-------|-------|--------------------------|
| 🔴 **RED** | OverlayBlocker | Semi-transparent red overlay that dims the background |
| 🟢 **GREEN** | OverlayLayer | Very transparent green container (70% transparent) |
| 🔵 **BLUE** | ColorPickerPanel | Blue panel with RGB/HSV sliders visible inside |
| 🟡 **YELLOW** | Main Window | Yellow border around the main RvrseUI window |

## 📋 How to Run the Test

### Method 1: Direct loadstring (Recommended)
```lua
loadstring(game:HttpGet("https://raw.githubusercontent.com/CoderRvrse/RvrseUI/main/examples/test-colorpicker-visual-debug.lua"))()
```

### Method 2: Copy/Paste
1. Copy the entire contents of `test-colorpicker-visual-debug.lua`
2. Paste into a LocalScript in Roblox Studio
3. Run the script

## 🔍 What to Look For

### When the Test Loads:
1. You should see a window with a **YELLOW border**
2. Console will show layer discovery:
   ```
   ✅ Found RvrseUI_Popovers ScreenGui
   ✅ Found OverlayLayer
   ✅ Found OverlayBlocker
   ✅ Found ColorPickerPanel
   ```

### When You Click the Orange Circle:
1. **RED blocker** should appear (semi-transparent, dimming background)
2. **GREEN overlay layer** should be visible (very transparent)
3. **BLUE panel** should appear with sliders inside
4. **YELLOW window border** should still be visible (not covered)

### Console Monitoring:
The script continuously monitors blocker state changes and logs:
```
[BLOCKER] Visible: true | ZIndex: 100 | Transparency: 0.70 | Modal: false | Active: false
```

## 🐛 Diagnosing Issues

### Issue 1: Red Blocker Covers Everything
**Symptoms:**
- You see a semi-transparent RED screen
- You CANNOT see the BLUE panel
- You CANNOT see the YELLOW window border

**Diagnosis:**
- Blocker ZIndex is too high OR
- Blocker is Modal/Active (blocking all clicks) OR
- Blocker is parented incorrectly

**Console Check:**
```lua
[BLOCKER] Visible: true | ZIndex: 100 | Transparency: 0.70 | Modal: true | Active: true
                                                              ^^^^           ^^^^
                                                             Problem!       Problem!
```

**Fix Needed:**
- Set `blocker.Modal = false`
- Set `blocker.Active = false`
- Ensure blocker ZIndex (100) < panel ZIndex (200)

---

### Issue 2: Blue Panel Not Visible
**Symptoms:**
- You see RED blocker
- You see GREEN overlay
- You DO NOT see BLUE panel

**Diagnosis:**
- Panel ZIndex is too low (should be 200, above blocker's 100)
- Panel is off-screen (check position)
- Panel size is 0 (ClipsDescendants issue)

**Console Check:**
```
✅ Found ColorPickerPanel
   ZIndex: 200
   Visible: true
   Size: {0, 320}, {0, 0}  ← Height is 0! Panel is collapsed!
```

**Fix Needed:**
- Panel animation not running (height stays 0)
- ClipsDescendants set to true with 0 height
- Check `pickerPanel.Size` after animation

---

### Issue 3: Yellow Border Not Visible
**Symptoms:**
- You CANNOT see the YELLOW border around main window
- Main window is completely covered

**Diagnosis:**
- RvrseUI_Popovers DisplayOrder is too high
- Main window (DisplayOrder 999) is below popovers layer

**Fix Needed:**
- Ensure `RvrseUI_Popovers.DisplayOrder` > `RvrseUI_Host.DisplayOrder`
- But blocker should still be semi-transparent to see through it

---

### Issue 4: Everything Works But Sliders Not Responding
**Symptoms:**
- RED blocker is semi-transparent (correct)
- BLUE panel is visible (correct)
- But you can't click sliders

**Diagnosis:**
- Blocker Modal/Active is stealing all clicks
- Panel ZIndex is correct but blocker is blocking input

**Console Check:**
```
[BLOCKER] Visible: true | ZIndex: 100 | Transparency: 0.70 | Modal: true | Active: true
```

**Fix Needed:**
- Set `blocker.Modal = false` (allows clicks to pass through to higher ZIndex elements)

---

## ✅ Expected Working Behavior

### Visual:
1. **Before Click:**
   - Main window with YELLOW border visible
   - No RED/GREEN/BLUE layers visible

2. **After Clicking Orange Circle:**
   - RED blocker appears (70% transparent, dims background)
   - GREEN overlay layer visible (very transparent)
   - BLUE panel slides in with sliders
   - YELLOW border still visible through semi-transparent blocker
   - You CAN click sliders (blocker doesn't block higher ZIndex elements)

3. **When Dragging Sliders:**
   - All 6 sliders update in sync (RGB ↔ HSV)
   - Hex input updates live
   - Preview circle changes color
   - OnChanged callback fires in console

4. **When Clicking Outside Panel (on RED area):**
   - Panel closes smoothly
   - Blocker fades out
   - Back to initial state (only YELLOW border visible)

### Console:
```
🎨 ColorPicker Visual Debug Test
🔴 RED = Blocker Layer
🟢 GREEN = Overlay Layer
🔵 BLUE = ColorPicker Panel
🟡 YELLOW = Main Window
================================================================================

🔍 Finding and coloring layers...
✅ Added YELLOW border to main window
✅ Found RvrseUI_Popovers ScreenGui
   DisplayOrder: 1009
✅ Found OverlayLayer
   🟢 Set OverlayLayer to GREEN (70% transparent)
✅ Found OverlayBlocker
   ZIndex: 100
   Visible: false
   Transparency: 1
   🔴 Set Blocker to RED
✅ Found ColorPickerPanel
   ZIndex: 200
   Visible: false
   Size: {0, 320}, {0, 0}
   🔵 Set ColorPickerPanel to BLUE

================================================================================
✅ Visual debug setup complete!

📋 What you should see:
  1. Main window has YELLOW border
  2. When you click the orange circle:
     🔴 RED blocker should appear (semi-transparent)
     🟢 GREEN overlay layer visible
     🔵 BLUE ColorPicker panel with sliders

⚠️  If RED blocker covers everything:
     → Blocker ZIndex is too high
     → Blocker shouldn't be Modal/Active

⚠️  If you can't see BLUE panel:
     → Panel ZIndex needs to be higher than blocker
     → Panel might be off-screen (check position)
================================================================================

[User clicks orange circle]

[BLOCKER] Visible: true | ZIndex: 100 | Transparency: 0.70 | Modal: false | Active: false
[ColorPicker Changed] 255, 100, 50

[User drags R slider]

[ColorPicker Changed] 200, 100, 50
```

---

## 🛠️ Next Steps After Running This Test

1. **Take a screenshot** of what you see when the panel is open
2. **Copy the console output** (all the logs)
3. **Report findings:**
   - Can you see YELLOW border? (Yes/No)
   - Can you see RED blocker? (Yes/No, and is it transparent?)
   - Can you see BLUE panel? (Yes/No)
   - Can you click sliders? (Yes/No)
   - What does the blocker console log show? (Modal/Active values)

4. **Based on findings**, we'll fix:
   - ZIndex values if layers are in wrong order
   - Modal/Active properties if blocker is stealing clicks
   - DisplayOrder if main window is completely covered
   - Panel animation if it's not opening to full height

---

## 📝 Technical Details

### ZIndex Hierarchy (Expected):
```
Main Window (DisplayOrder 999)
  └─ Should be visible through semi-transparent blocker

RvrseUI_Popovers (DisplayOrder 1009)
  └─ OverlayLayer (ZIndex 1, BackgroundTransparency = 0.7, GREEN)
      ├─ OverlayBlocker (ZIndex 100, BackgroundTransparency = 0.3, RED, Modal = false)
      └─ ColorPickerPanel (ZIndex 200, BackgroundTransparency = 0.3, BLUE)
```

### Why This Color Scheme:
- **RED (Blocker)**: High contrast, easy to see if it's covering things
- **GREEN (Layer)**: Neutral, shows layer boundaries
- **BLUE (Panel)**: Cool color, contrasts with sliders inside
- **YELLOW (Window)**: Bright, should always be partially visible through blocker

### Blocker Properties (Critical):
```lua
blocker.Modal = false       -- Allows clicks on higher ZIndex elements
blocker.Active = false      -- Doesn't capture input events
blocker.ZIndex = 100        -- Below panel (200)
blocker.BackgroundTransparency = 0.3  -- 70% transparent (we set to 0.3 in debug test to see it better)
```

---

## 🎯 Success Criteria

The ColorPicker Phase 2 is WORKING when:

✅ RED blocker is semi-transparent (you can see main window through it)
✅ BLUE panel is visible on top of blocker
✅ All 6 sliders (RGB + HSV) are clickable and responsive
✅ Hex input updates when sliders change
✅ Clicking RED area (outside BLUE panel) closes the panel
✅ YELLOW border remains visible (not completely covered)
✅ Console shows `Modal: false | Active: false` for blocker

---

**File:** `test-colorpicker-visual-debug.lua`
**Purpose:** Diagnose blocker layering issues
**Version:** 4.0.1
**Date:** 2025-10-17
