docs/EXECUTOR_ICON_FIX.md, before:

# Executor Icon Fix - Lucide Sprite Data Loading

**Date:** 2025-10-19
**Issue:** Icons not displaying in executor environment
**Status:** ✅ FIXED

---

> **Critical Reminder:** If you ever see `❌ Failed to load Lucide icons sprite sheet` in logs, rebuild the monolith (`node build.js`), confirm `_G.RvrseUI_LucideIconsData` exists, run `examples/test-lucide-icons.lua`, then commit the refreshed `RvrseUI.lua`. Do not skip these steps—this regression has already resurfaced multiple times.

## 🐛 The Problem

User reported: **"none of the test displayed a icon no errors but no icons either"**

### Root Causes

1. **Executor Environment Limitation**
   - Executors use `loadstring(game:HttpGet())` - no `ReplicatedStorage` access
   - Can't use `require(script.Parent["lucide-icons-data"])`
   - Module-based loading pattern doesn't work in monolith

2. **Sprite Data Not Embedded**
   - `lucide-icons-data.lua` (145KB) wasn't included in `RvrseUI.lua`
   - Build script read it but didn't embed it
   - LucideIcons module tried to `require()` a non-existent module

3. **No Fallback Mechanism**
   - Only one loading method: `require()`
   - When that failed, sprite data was `nil`
   - Icons fell back to Unicode, but LucideIcons wasn't initialized

---

## ✅ The Solution

### 1. **Updated LucideIcons.lua** (src/LucideIcons.lua:15-54)

Added hybrid loading that works in both executor and Studio:

```lua
local function loadIconsData()
	-- Try global first (monolith/executor environment)
	if _G.RvrseUI_LucideIconsData then
		Icons = _G.RvrseUI_LucideIconsData
		if deps and deps.Debug then
			deps.Debug.printf("[LUCIDE] ✅ Sprite sheet data loaded from global")
			-- ...
		end
		return true
	end

	-- Try require (modular mode - Studio/ReplicatedStorage)
	local success, result = pcall(function()
		return require(script.Parent["lucide-icons-data"])
	end)

	if success and result then
		Icons = result
		if deps and deps.Debug then
			deps.Debug.printf("[LUCIDE] ✅ Sprite sheet data loaded via require()")
			-- ...
		end
		return true
	end

	-- Both methods failed - use Unicode fallbacks only
	warn("[RvrseUI] ❌ Failed to load Lucide icons sprite sheet")
	if deps and deps.Debug then
		deps.Debug.printf("[LUCIDE] ⚠️ Sprite data not found - using Unicode fallbacks only")
	end
	return false
end
```

**Loading Priority:**
1. **Global variable** (`_G.RvrseUI_LucideIconsData`) - Executor/Monolith mode
2. **Module require** (`require(script.Parent["lucide-icons-data"])`) - Studio mode
3. **Unicode fallbacks** - If both fail

### 2. **Injected Sprite Data into RvrseUI.lua**

Created `inject-lucide-data.sh` script that:
1. Rebuilds `RvrseUI.lua` with latest code
2. Reads `src/lucide-icons-data.lua` (145KB sprite data)
3. Injects it as `_G.RvrseUI_LucideIconsData = {sprite data}` at line 35
4. Sets it BEFORE any modules load

**Injection Point (RvrseUI.lua:35):**
```lua
-- ========================
-- Lucide Icons Sprite Data
-- ========================
-- 500+ Lucide icons via sprite sheets (145KB)
-- Set as global for LucideIcons module to access
_G.RvrseUI_LucideIconsData = -- This file was automatically @generated and not intended for manual editing
--!nocheck

return {["48px"]={rewind={16898613699,{48,48},{563,967}},fuel={16898613353,{48,48},{196,967}}, ... [500+ more icons]
```

**File Size Verification:**
- Before injection: 274 KB
- After injection: 419 KB
- Difference: 145 KB ✅ (sprite data size matches)

### 3. **Created Test Suite**

Created `examples/test-lucide-data-loading.lua` to verify:
- Global sprite data exists
- 48px sprite sheet accessible
- Icon count matches expected (~500+)
- Specific icons have correct data structure
- Icons display in UI (as Unicode fallbacks for now)

---

## 🧪 Testing Instructions

### Run in Executor

```lua
loadstring(game:HttpGet("https://raw.githubusercontent.com/CoderRvrse/RvrseUI/main/examples/test-lucide-data-loading.lua"))()
```

### Expected Debug Output

```
==============================================
🔍 LUCIDE SPRITE DATA LOADING TEST
==============================================

📊 TEST 1: Check if global sprite data exists
✅ PASS: _G.RvrseUI_LucideIconsData exists
✅ PASS: 48px sprite sheet found
✅ PASS: 500+ icons in sprite sheet

📋 TEST 2: Verify specific icons exist:
  ✅ home: Asset 16898613509, Size (48,48), Offset (820,147)
  ✅ settings: Asset 16898613044, Size (48,48), Offset (918,563)
  ✅ search: Asset 16898613699, Size (48,48), Offset (918,857)
  ✅ x: Asset 16898613869, Size (48,48), Offset (869,906)
  ✅ check: Asset 16898613613, Size (48,48), Offset (869,49)
  ✅ arrow-right: Asset 16898612629, Size (48,48), Offset (453,820)

[LUCIDE] ✅ Sprite sheet data loaded from global
[LUCIDE] 📊 Available sizes: 48px
[LUCIDE] 📦 500+ icons available via sprite sheets
[LUCIDE] 🔄 100 Unicode fallbacks available
[LUCIDE] 📋 Sample icons: home, settings, search, ...

📊 TEST 3: Create window with Lucide icons
✅ TEST COMPLETE - Window created successfully!
```

### Expected Visual Result

- Window opens with title "Lucide Data Test"
- Tab icon shows 🏠 (Unicode fallback for `lucide://home`)
- Three buttons with icons: 🏠 ⚙ ✓
- No errors in console
- Debug logs confirm sprite data loaded

---

## 📊 Current Status

### ✅ What Works Now

1. **Sprite data loads in executors** via `_G.RvrseUI_LucideIconsData`
2. **Sprite data loads in Studio** via `require()`
3. **500+ icons accessible** in both environments
4. **Icons display as Unicode** (fallback rendering)
5. **No errors** - graceful degradation if data missing

### ⏳ What's Next (Sprite Rendering)

Icons currently display as **Unicode symbols** (🏠 ⚙ →) because UI elements don't handle the "sprite" type yet.

**To enable pixel-perfect sprite rendering:**

1. **Update TabBuilder** (src/TabBuilder.lua)
   - Handle `iconType == "sprite"` in CreateTab
   - Set `ImageRectOffset` and `ImageRectSize`

2. **Update All UI Elements**
   - Button.lua, Toggle.lua, Dropdown.lua, Slider.lua, etc.
   - Apply same sprite handling pattern

3. **Pattern to Apply:**
```lua
local iconAsset, iconType = Icons:Resolve(icon)

if iconType == "image" then
    iconLabel.Image = iconAsset
elseif iconType == "sprite" then
    -- NEW: Sprite sheet rendering
    iconLabel.Image = "rbxassetid://" .. iconAsset.id
    iconLabel.ImageRectSize = iconAsset.imageRectSize
    iconLabel.ImageRectOffset = iconAsset.imageRectOffset
elseif iconType == "text" then
    textLabel.Text = iconAsset
end
```

---

## 🔧 Maintenance

### Rebuilding RvrseUI.lua

The sprite data injection script must be run after every rebuild:

```bash
cd d:/RvrseUI
./inject-lucide-data.sh
```

**What it does:**
1. Runs `node build.js` to compile latest source
2. Reads `src/lucide-icons-data.lua`
3. Injects sprite data into `RvrseUI.lua` as global
4. Outputs: `✅ Lucide sprite data injected!`

**Automated build workflow:**
```bash
# Edit source files
vim src/SomeModule.lua

# Rebuild with sprite data
./inject-lucide-data.sh

# Test in executor
# (sprite data is now embedded)
```

### File Structure

```
d:/RvrseUI/
├── src/
│   ├── LucideIcons.lua          # ✅ Updated: Hybrid loading
│   └── lucide-icons-data.lua    # 145KB sprite data (source)
├── RvrseUI.lua                   # ✅ Updated: 419KB (includes sprite data)
├── inject-lucide-data.sh         # ✅ NEW: Injection script
└── examples/
    └── test-lucide-data-loading.lua  # ✅ NEW: Verification test
```

---

## 📝 Summary

**Problem:** Icons didn't display in executors because sprite data wasn't embedded and loading failed.

**Solution:**
1. Made LucideIcons.lua support global variable loading
2. Injected 145KB sprite data into RvrseUI.lua as `_G.RvrseUI_LucideIconsData`
3. Sprite data now loads in both executor and Studio environments

**Result:** Icons now display (as Unicode fallbacks). Sprite rendering implementation is next.

**Test:** Run `test-lucide-data-loading.lua` in executor to verify sprite data loads correctly.

---

**Last Updated:** 2025-10-19 07:40 UTC
**Next Milestone:** Implement sprite rendering in UI elements

Commit message:

Docs: switch build instructions to Luau packer

docs/EXECUTOR_ICON_FIX.md, after:

# Executor Icon Fix - Lucide Sprite Data Loading

**Date:** 2025-10-19
**Issue:** Icons not displaying in executor environment
**Status:** ✅ FIXED

---

> **Critical Reminder:** If you ever see `❌ Failed to load Lucide icons sprite sheet` in logs, rebuild the monolith (`lua tools/build.lua`), confirm `_G.RvrseUI_LucideIconsData` exists, run `examples/test-lucide-icons.lua`, then commit the refreshed `RvrseUI.lua`. Do not skip these steps—this regression has already resurfaced multiple times.

## 🐛 The Problem

User reported: **"none of the test displayed a icon no errors but no icons either"**

### Root Causes

1. **Executor Environment Limitation**
   - Executors use `loadstring(game:HttpGet())` - no `ReplicatedStorage` access
   - Can't use `require(script.Parent["lucide-icons-data"])`
   - Module-based loading pattern doesn't work in monolith

2. **Sprite Data Not Embedded**
   - `lucide-icons-data.lua` (145KB) wasn't included in `RvrseUI.lua`
   - Build script read it but didn't embed it
   - LucideIcons module tried to `require()` a non-existent module

3. **No Fallback Mechanism**
   - Only one loading method: `require()`
   - When that failed, sprite data was `nil`
   - Icons fell back to Unicode, but LucideIcons wasn't initialized

---

## ✅ The Solution

### 1. **Updated LucideIcons.lua** (src/LucideIcons.lua:15-54)

Added hybrid loading that works in both executor and Studio:

```lua
local function loadIconsData()
	-- Try global first (monolith/executor environment)
	if _G.RvrseUI_LucideIconsData then
		Icons = _G.RvrseUI_LucideIconsData
		if deps and deps.Debug then
			deps.Debug.printf("[LUCIDE] ✅ Sprite sheet data loaded from global")
			-- ...
		end
		return true
	end

	-- Try require (modular mode - Studio/ReplicatedStorage)
	local success, result = pcall(function()
		return require(script.Parent["lucide-icons-data"])
	end)

	if success and result then
		Icons = result
		if deps and deps.Debug then
			deps.Debug.printf("[LUCIDE] ✅ Sprite sheet data loaded via require()")
			-- ...
		end
		return true
	end

	-- Both methods failed - use Unicode fallbacks only
	warn("[RvrseUI] ❌ Failed to load Lucide icons sprite sheet")
	if deps and deps.Debug then
		deps.Debug.printf("[LUCIDE] ⚠️ Sprite data not found - using Unicode fallbacks only")
	end
	return false
end
```

**Loading Priority:**
1. **Global variable** (`_G.RvrseUI_LucideIconsData`) - Executor/Monolith mode
2. **Module require** (`require(script.Parent["lucide-icons-data"])`) - Studio mode
3. **Unicode fallbacks** - If both fail

### 2. **Injected Sprite Data into RvrseUI.lua**

`lua tools/build.lua` now embeds the sprite sheet automatically. Each rebuild:

1. concatenates the modules in `src/` using the canonical order
2. reads `src/lucide-icons-data.lua` (145 KB sprite atlas)
3. writes `_G.RvrseUI_LucideIconsData = { ... }` immediately after the service preload
4. outputs the refreshed bundle to `RvrseUI.lua`

No extra shell helpers are required—run the Luau build script whenever you modify source files and the global data stays in sync.

### 3. **Created Test Suite**

Created `examples/test-lucide-data-loading.lua` to verify:
- Global sprite data exists
- 48px sprite sheet accessible
- Icon count matches expected (~500+)
- Specific icons have correct data structure
- Icons display in UI (as Unicode fallbacks for now)

---

## 🧪 Testing Instructions

### Run in Executor

```lua
loadstring(game:HttpGet("https://raw.githubusercontent.com/CoderRvrse/RvrseUI/main/examples/test-lucide-data-loading.lua"))()
```

### Expected Debug Output

```
==============================================
🔍 LUCIDE SPRITE DATA LOADING TEST
==============================================

📊 TEST 1: Check if global sprite data exists
✅ PASS: _G.RvrseUI_LucideIconsData exists
✅ PASS: 48px sprite sheet found
✅ PASS: 500+ icons in sprite sheet

📋 TEST 2: Verify specific icons exist:
  ✅ home: Asset 16898613509, Size (48,48), Offset (820,147)
  ✅ settings: Asset 16898613044, Size (48,48), Offset (918,563)
  ✅ search: Asset 16898613699, Size (48,48), Offset (918,857)
  ✅ x: Asset 16898613869, Size (48,48), Offset (869,906)
  ✅ check: Asset 16898613613, Size (48,48), Offset (869,49)
  ✅ arrow-right: Asset 16898612629, Size (48,48), Offset (453,820)

[LUCIDE] ✅ Sprite sheet data loaded from global
[LUCIDE] 📊 Available sizes: 48px
[LUCIDE] 📦 500+ icons available via sprite sheets
[LUCIDE] 🔄 100 Unicode fallbacks available
[LUCIDE] 📋 Sample icons: home, settings, search, ...

📊 TEST 3: Create window with Lucide icons
✅ TEST COMPLETE - Window created successfully!
```

### Expected Visual Result

- Window opens with title "Lucide Data Test"
- Tab icon shows 🏠 (Unicode fallback for `lucide://home`)
- Three buttons with icons: 🏠 ⚙ ✓
- No errors in console
- Debug logs confirm sprite data loaded

---

## 📊 Current Status

### ✅ What Works Now

1. **Sprite data loads in executors** via `_G.RvrseUI_LucideIconsData`
2. **Sprite data loads in Studio** via `require()`
3. **500+ icons accessible** in both environments
4. **Icons display as Unicode** (fallback rendering)
5. **No errors** - graceful degradation if data missing

### ⏳ What's Next (Sprite Rendering)

Icons currently display as **Unicode symbols** (🏠 ⚙ →) because UI elements don't handle the "sprite" type yet.

**To enable pixel-perfect sprite rendering:**

1. **Update TabBuilder** (src/TabBuilder.lua)
   - Handle `iconType == "sprite"` in CreateTab
   - Set `ImageRectOffset` and `ImageRectSize`

2. **Update All UI Elements**
   - Button.lua, Toggle.lua, Dropdown.lua, Slider.lua, etc.
   - Apply same sprite handling pattern

3. **Pattern to Apply:**
```lua
local iconAsset, iconType = Icons:Resolve(icon)

if iconType == "image" then
    iconLabel.Image = iconAsset
elseif iconType == "sprite" then
    -- NEW: Sprite sheet rendering
    iconLabel.Image = "rbxassetid://" .. iconAsset.id
    iconLabel.ImageRectSize = iconAsset.imageRectSize
    iconLabel.ImageRectOffset = iconAsset.imageRectOffset
elseif iconType == "text" then
    textLabel.Text = iconAsset
end
```

---

## 🔧 Maintenance

### Rebuilding RvrseUI.lua

Run the Luau packer after every rebuild:

```bash
cd d:/RvrseUI
lua tools/build.lua
```

That step compiles the bundle, embeds `_G.RvrseUI_LucideIconsData`, and prints a success message. A typical loop looks like:

```bash
# Edit source files
vim src/SomeModule.lua

# Rebuild with sprite data
lua tools/build.lua

# Smoke test in executor or Studio
```

### File Structure

```
d:/RvrseUI/
├── src/
│   ├── LucideIcons.lua          # ✅ Updated: Hybrid loading
│   └── lucide-icons-data.lua    # 145KB sprite data (source)
├── RvrseUI.lua                   # ✅ Updated: 419KB (includes sprite data)
└── examples/
    └── test-lucide-data-loading.lua  # ✅ NEW: Verification test
```

---

## 📝 Summary

**Problem:** Icons didn't display in executors because sprite data wasn't embedded and loading failed.

**Solution:**
1. Made LucideIcons.lua support global variable loading
2. Injected 145KB sprite data into RvrseUI.lua as `_G.RvrseUI_LucideIconsData`
3. Sprite data now loads in both executor and Studio environments

**Result:** Icons now display (as Unicode fallbacks). Sprite rendering implementation is next.

**Test:** Run `test-lucide-data-loading.lua` in executor to verify sprite data loads correctly.

---

**Last Updated:** 2025-10-19 07:40 UTC
**Next Milestone:** Implement sprite rendering in UI elements
